# Research Dataset Restructuring

## Why do we do this project?
What if the GasTerra contract finishes in 2015? How can we then keep existing 
as a company? We have to be able to do many more projects. The effectiveness 
has to go up and we want to have an easier time creating versions of other 
countries. It is therefore a strategic necessity to reduce the effort it takes 
to maintain the research dataset. We might also want to give the maintenance 
of certain parts of the model (modules, countries)  to external parties 
(Ecofys, Energy Matters, BDEW, etc)

## Which requirements do we have for the new research dataset?
* Complete and maintained in one centralized place
* Version Controlled
* Well documented and supported by research (we don't know it, we don't do it)
* Standardized to recognizable standards
* Clear overview and transparent
* Easy to validate
* Takes less effort to update and maintain
* Can be sent to externals without shame / open sourced

### What do we expect to have in three months?
* All countries that we maintain should have the same analysis documents 
associated with it
* Specification of analysis criteria: what does an analysis look like and 
which things should always be included? (AW)
* Review checklist for Analysis (10 bullets) (AW)
* The extent to which we want to allow flexibility for data interpretation 
from research data to input data in the research dataset
* Overview of the order of analysis (WM)
* A list of sensitive points in the data which has to be evaluated: do we want 
to keep this in the model and expend the effort on finding more data? Or 
should we get rid of it?

### What we expect to have in three years
* All analysis online in an inputtool

## Working hypotheses
1 Research data to input data is a process
  * Consists of multiple steps
  * Occurs in a certain order
  * Hinges on several key analyses 
    - CHP 
    - power and heat
    - metal sector
    - etc

2 We need these analysis tools (for now a spreadsheet) that we can use to do 
the data interpretation from research data to input data
  * Each analysis has a recognizable and uniform format and structure 
  (dashboard, assumptions, calculations, sources, etc)
  * Each analysis can open/import/use the data for all supported countries 
  (CHALLENGE!)
  * To keep it well documented and transparent we need multiple sheets per 
  analysis
  * Such analysis tools will present
    - Challenges for version control
    - Challenges for maintainability
    - Challenges for transparency

## Key questions / dilemmas
* We anticipate spreadsheet tool will remain necessary. How can we maintain 
documented analyses in a version controlled environment for multiple 
countries?
* What does input data look like? What does etsource look like? Who owns it? 
Shared effort!
* Is the order in the analyses linear or circular? Can we limit it to linear?
  * Is it possible to use etsource as much as possible to get data from 
  previous analyses?
