## Stable version release 2025-01

The first stable version of the ETM is released, marking a major milestone for the model. Traditionally, the ETM has been under continuous development to capture the latest energy system modelling features, bug fixes and updates to datasets. The downside of this was that scenario settings, outcomes and dataset values could change over time. With the the stable version release, users now have the choice to work on the traditional and default version, `#latest`, or on the new and stable version, `#2025-01`.

The default and stable version of the model are at this moment exactly the same, but as `#latest` will continue to be under development, it will over time diverge from `#2025-01`. The release of the stable version does not affect any of the scenarios created before the release. For more information about stable versions and how to move scenarios to the stable version, see the <a href="https://docs.energytransitionmodel.com/main/user_manual/model-versions/#move-scenarios-between-versions" target="_blank">documentation</a>.

<div style="padding: 10px; background-color: #E7F3FF; color: #333; margin-bottom: 15px;">
  <b>Note</b>: the release of the stable version does not affect any of the scenarios created before the release.
</div>

## Other new features

* It is now possible to download an overview of all slider settings of a scenario in the <a href="https://energytransitionmodel.com/scenario/data/data_export/overview-of-slider-settings" target="_blank">Data export</a> section.
* Improvements of the start year data related to final demand in agriculture for the municipality of Noordoostpolder. Consult the <a href="https://data.energytransitionmodel.com/datasets/GM0171" target="_blank">Dataset Manager</a> to view this dataset.
* Update of the chart "Final energy demand in other sector" where the carriers are now split into energetic and non-energetic (feedstock) demand.

**Bug fixes**

  * There was an issue in modelling losses related to the treatment of natural gas extraction. This led to a mismatch between calculations for the annual and hourly natural gas balance and to an overestimation of natural gas imports in certain scenarios. This issue is now fixed.
  * The charts in <a href="https://collections.energytransitionmodel.com/" target="_blank">Collections</a> that show the final demand ‘by carrier’ and ‘by sector by carrier’ were not aligned. This caused a discrepancy between these charts in the total final demand of Liquid biofuels and Oil and oil products. These charts have now been aligned to resolve this discrepancy.
  * Greenhouse gas emissions from the Other sector were missing from the <a href="https://energytransitionmodel.com/scenario/data/data_visuals/greenhouse-gas-footprint" target="_blank">Greenhouse gas footprint</a> visual. These are now included in the visual under Industry, Energy & Other.
  * Under certain conditions, the forecasting algorithm for electricity storage caused invalid hourly electricity prices to emerge during curtailment. This issue is now fixed and the electricity price becomes 0 €/MWh in hours with curtailment.
  * The electricity used in demand side response (DSR) in the central ICT sector was not taken into account in all calculations for final demand. This issue is now fixed.
