### New features

* The new table *Power shortage* is now available, which provides detailed insights into the volume, peak capacity and duration of power shortages in a scenario. Find this table via the charts and tables overview or via the *Power shortage* dashboard item (read more about dashboard items <a href="https://docs.energytransitionmodel.com/main/dashboard" target="_blank">here</a>).
* Improvements have been made in the Households sector concerning the available sliders. This includes:
  * The <a href="https://energytransitionmodel.com/scenario/demand/households/appliances" target="_blank">efficiency improvement of appliances</a> can now be set using a single functional slider, instead of separate sliders per appliance. For existing scenarios where the old sliders were set, the average efficiency improvement is transferred to the new slider.
  * The sliders that set behaviour changes were outdated and are removed from the model.
  * Consult the technical changelog below for more details on changes in sliders (inputs).
* It is now possible to upload different <a href="https://energytransitionmodel.com/scenario/flexibility/curve_upload/upload-curves" target="_blank">custom profiles</a> for deep and shallow geothermal technologies. Before, it was only possible to upload one custom profile that was applied to both deep and shallow geothermal technologies.

### Bug fixes

  * There was a bug in the <a href="https://energytransitionmodel.com/scenario/flexibility/curve_upload/upload-curves" target="_blank">custom profiles</a> for hydro power, solar thermal and geothermal heat, which caused uploaded profiles for these technologies to not be processed correctly and prevented the related full load hours from being set. This issue has now been resolved, wich means that the custom profiles and related full load hours are now processed and set correctly.
  * For various Dutch municipal datasets, the final demand of heat in Households in the start year was incorrect. This has been corrected.


**Technical changelog**

  * <a href="/img/releases/changelog/202506_changelog_inputs.csv" download>202506_changelog_inputs.csv</a>

</br>
