# Storage Project within the merit order module

## Scope

In a first attempt, storage will only fulfil the following functionality within 
the merit order: 

* Storage is a participant that can consume or produce electricity (if charged).
* Storage is incorporated within the merit order module. It can be disabled by 
the user.
* Only 'excess electricity' is stored. The trigger for charging storage is a 
negative residual demand (the availability of excess electricity that would be 
exported or curtailed otherwise). How storage and export compete for excess 
electricity is yet to be decided. 
* The trigger for discharging storage is a positive residual demand. 
As storage is discharged, the full load hours of dispatchables decreases. 
In consequence, storage does not act economically, as it does not maximise r
evenues during discharge. 

## Nomenclature and Definitions

#### Participants
Storage makes use of the same classification of participants as merit order: 
* `dispatchable producers` (can be switched on and off at will)
* `volatile producers` (can be switched off but not on at will)
* `must-run producers` (produces electricity as a by-product and is insensitive 
to changes in electricity demand)


#### Residual load curve
The merit order uses a demand curve as input. This demand may be (partly) 
fulfilled by the load from volatiles and must-run participants. 
The residual load is the demand minus the load from volatiles and must-runs. 
This curve can become negative for large penetrations of volatiles and must-run 
capacity, which leads to 'excess electricity'.

#### Excess electricity (or Surplus electricity)
Excess electricity occurs whenever the residual load is negative. Whenever 
excess electricity occurs, the domestic demand for electricity is already 
satisfied (and dispatchables are thus turned off). Excess electricity is 
usually exported, but can also be stored in electricity storage, 
curtailed or converted into gas, heat... 

#### Curtailment 
Curtailment occurs in situations of excess electricity. If excess electricity 
cannot be assigned to a consumer (e.g. export, conversion or storage), it has 
to be curtailed. On a physical level this means that producers of electricity 
are told to shut down by the grid operator. Curtailing electricity is a measure 
to maintain grid stability. Currently, curtailment hardly occurs; however, its 
occurence is expected to increase significantly in the future. Curtailment 
by be caused or amplified by limited export capacities or transmission grid 
constraints. 

#### Avoided Curtailment 
Avoided curtailment is the amount of electricity that would have been curtailed 
if no preventive measure had been taken.

#### Electricity Storage
Electricity is stored in the form of another energy carrier. For example, 
chemical energy in batteries or potential energy in pumped hydro plants. This 
storage reservoir is emptied on demand, and electricity is generated by 
discharging the storage. 
Electricity storage is characterized by numerous parameters, like: 
* charging/discharging efficiency (round-trip efficiency)
* self-discharge
* maximum capacity
* maximum energy content
* cost paramters
* etc 

#### Storage Capacity (power capacity)
Storage capacity refers to the load that a storage device draws from the grid. 
Just like the capacity of a gas plant, the storage capacity is a power measured 
in Watts. In contrast to ordinary language, storage capacity does not refer to 
an energy content (thinking of AA batteries). 

#### Storage Charge
Opposite to other participants, storage is limited by its maximum charge 
content. Storage might become unavailable for further charging when full. 
Similarly, storage can no longer discharge when empty.

#### Demand
The request from consumers for electricity, in MW.

#### Load
The owner output from electricity producers (including storage in discharge 
mode) in MW. 

#### Load-shifting 
"In an electric power system, the transfer of loads from times of peak demand 
to off-peak time periods" <sub>[McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific & 
Technical Terms, 6E, Copyright © 2003 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.]</sub>.

This is a strict definition of load-shifting, all have to be fulfilled:

1. It adds an extra demand to the grid when storage is charged
* It removes production when storage is discharged
* Electricity is taken out of the system and stored in the form of 
another energy carrier

#### Electricity storage, power-to-power conversion
Physical devices that perform load-shifting tasks. Storage is a net consumer of 
electricity. <sub>(With the exception of compressed air storage that co-fires 
natural gas during discharge.)<\sub>

RICHARD: I dont understand these two last sentences. Could you rephrase/explain?

#### Demand shifting, demand side management 
Shifting the demand of consumers in time. The net demand stays constant.

#### Ramping 
As demand and generation from volatiles/must-runs changes over time, 
dispatchables have to adapt their output. Ramping refers this change in 
dispatchable load (the gradient of the residual load curve). 
Ramping does not refer to switching a plant on 'gradually'. 

## Inputs

to be done

## Outputs

to be done

## Road map

* We have to decide whether both must-run and volatile production can lead to 
curtailments
* All costs parameters have to be clearly defined
* At a later stage the exact look and feel in the etmodel will have to be 
determined and also what outputs to etmodel are needed

